[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti in charlie state our
headlines today
new rules for care home visits in
england residents will be allowed two
regular visitors indoors from the 12th
of april
one police officer is killed and another
is in hospital after an attack at the
u.s capitol building in washington dc
france and italy enter new national
lockdowns as they struggle to contain a
surge
in coronavirus cases diagnosing epilepsy
more quickly we'll hear from the
families using new technology to share
videos of seizures
as part of an nhs trial good morning the
women's six nations finally gets
underway today delayed by the pandemic
but now taking center stage
so can england retain their title they
face scotland in the opening game this
afternoon
good morning it's a dry day ahead today
with some sunshine particularly for
northern and western areas
cooler and cloudier conditions for
eastern england but i'll have all the
details coming up on breakfast
good morning it's saturday the third of
april our top story is that care home
residents in england will be allowed two
regular visitors indoors from the 12th
of april it's all part of the further
relaxation of coronavirus restrictions
visitors will also be able to bring
babies and young children with them
meaning some residents could meet
grandchildren for the first time
in a long time charlotte wright has this
report
it's been an agonizing year for those
with relatives locked down in care homes
but last month as restrictions started
to ease
some were able to hold their loved one's
hands for the first time
since the start of the pandemic hello
mom
how are you now from the 12th of april
more family members will be reunited
as residents will be allowed a second
regular indoor visitor
it's a cautious step forward it's the
step that we want to take
for us it's important that all guidance
is followed and we'll wait and see what
the guidance is but you know holding
hands
no hugging no kissing um you know two
members of the family coming in
it's just gonna make a huge amount of
difference for the individual's world
being
for the families as well the change to
the visiting rules will also mean
parents can bring their babies and very
young children
so while many have introduced their
newborns to family members like this
in the past year some care home
residents will soon be able to meet
their grandchildren face to face
for the first time the department of
health and social care says the increase
in visitor numbers can go ahead because
of a drop in community infection rates
and the roll out of vaccinations
as almost 94 percent of eligible older
people's care home residents have now
received their first dose
in line with existing rules visitors
must provide a negative test result
and wear ppe but the exact details are
yet to be announced
including the definition of very young
children
the government says the full guidance
will be published next week
charlotte wright bbc news
president biden says he's heartbroken
after a police officer was killed in an
attack on a checkpoint
outside the u.s capitol building in
washington another officer was also
seriously hurt when a man drove a car
into a security barrier and then
lunged towards them with a knife our
correspondent david willis has this
report
[Music]
panic in america's capital city once
again
the driver of this car rammed into two
police officers
killing one and injuring another before
hitting the barrier
he then emerged wielding a knife he did
not respond to verbal commands
the suspect did start lunging toward
u.s capitol police officers at what
at which time u.s capitol police
officers fired upon the suspect
congress was sent into lockdown as a
helicopter arrived
to take one of the officers to hospital
officials later identified the policeman
who died as william
billy evans an 18-year veteran of the
force
house speaker nancy pelosi called him a
martyr for democracy
president biden said in a statement that
he and his wife were heartbroken by the
attack
we know what a difficult time this has
been for the capital
everyone who works there and those who
protect it he said
three months ago another police officer
died after supporters of the former
president donald trump
forced their way into the building as
congress was certifying joe biden's
election victory
this time however the capitol building
was quiet congress is on easter recess
and most of its politicians are out of
town
the suspect has been named as 25 year
old noah greene
an african american who described
himself on social media
as a follower of the black nationalist
group nation of islam
officials say they've yet to establish a
motive for the attack
it came only days after officials
started removing a fence
put in place following the uprising in
january a week ago the driver wouldn't
have been able to get as close to the
building
as he did there had also been talk of
reducing the thousands of national guard
officers who were drafted in
some of whom found themselves deployed
once again
lawmakers will have to decide whether
they remain and whether the fences
should go back up but as flags at the
white house were lowered
some were posing a broader question how
to maintain an
open democracy when so many people seem
to want to cause it harm
david willis bbc news los angeles
a man is being questioned by west
midlands police after a woman in her 80s
died following an attack by two escaped
dogs which
got into her garden the victim was found
with serious injuries
near dudley yesterday afternoon our
reporter catherine stancheshan
is there for us this morning catherine
good morning to you it's a really
harrowing
incident uh this just tell us what's
known so far
yes a shocking event here on a bank
holiday friday afternoon in
rowley regis in the black country that
saw this residential
a street filled with emergency service
vehicles
yesterday and also an air ambulance land
in a nearby
park as you can see police presence
still here with a cordon
at a house and a van as well what we
know is that emergency services were
called about 20 past
three to reports of a woman seriously
injured in her back garden following
a dog attack police have confirmed that
an 81 year old woman
who hasn't been named despite their best
efforts
sadly died at the scene police have also
confirmed
that two dogs were involved neither of
them belonged to the woman
and both are now being tested to try and
determine what breed they are
westminster's police has also confirmed
a 43 year old local man
has been detained on suspicion of being
the person in charge of a dog
dangerously out of control
and in a statement released last night
they added that their thoughts are with
the woman's friends and family
at this deeply distressing time back to
you catherine thank you
the medicines regulator has urged
everyone to continue
attending covid vaccination appointments
after it emerged that seven people in
the uk
given the oxford astrazeneca jab had
died afterwards with blood clots
30 clotting incidents have been recorded
among more than 18
million people who've been immunized but
the virus itself has been linked to
abnormal clots which could be making
them more common our science
correspondent rebecca morrell
has the story the astrazeneca jab has
been rolled out
across the uk providing vital protection
against covid19
no link between rare blood clots and the
jab has been proven
but the uk medical regulator is
investigating
the clots are unusual they're
accompanied by low levels of platelets
which are a type of blood cell
30 cases have been reported and seven
deaths
this is out of 18 million doses so the
incidence is extremely low
now scientists are trying to establish
whether the clots have occurred
naturally
or are very rare reactions to the
astrazeneca jab
the medical regulator also reported
brain blood clots
in two people who'd had the pfizer jab
although without the unusual low
platelet levels
some countries are restricting who
they're giving the astrazeneca jab to
the netherlands has announced it's not
recommending it for people under 60
but the uk vaccine rollout is continuing
the british medical regulator
along with the european medicines agency
and the world health organization
say the benefits from vaccination far
outweigh any potential risks
rebecca morel bbc news eight police
officers have been injured during
writing in belfast
seven people were arrested in the sandy
row area of the city
after petrol bombs bricks and bottles
were thrown at police
the violence coincided with a loyalist
protest last night
as europe continues to battle a third
wave of coronavirus infections
an extension to the lockdown in france
begins this evening requiring people to
justify
any journey that takes them more than
six miles from home
every region in italy has also been
placed into lockdown for three days from
today
most shops are closed non-essential
movement is banned
but churches remain open for easter
services our rome correspondent mark
lowen has more
well when pope francis gave his audibi
et orbi
message on easter sunday to the city and
the world
a year ago to a deserted lock down saint
peter's square
few would have imagined that 12 months
on here we would be again
but yes indeed we are italy is in the
grip of a third wave with about 20
000 coronavirus cases a day and so the
whole of italy is now
in a red zone for this easter weekend
and of course the vatican ii is in
lockdown what does that mean well
uh that restaurants are only offering a
takeaway service across the whole of the
country
and that non-essential businesses right
across italy have had to close there are
movement restrictions as well all
arrivals into italy from
european union countries are subject to
a five-day quarantine
as well but in one concession two
italians who will be sitting down for
their easter lunch or
dinner at home they are allowed to
invite
up to two people from the same family to
join them for this
which is an import extremely important
weekend and celebration for many
italians
in terms of church services well they
are still going ahead for the eastern
mass
but the faithful are being encouraged to
go to the church closest to their homes
and of course to observe strict social
distancing measures when they're inside
pope francis will be holding mass this
weekend he will deliver that would be
adobe message on sunday morning
which he hopes will i'm sure provide
some solace to many
people around the world for whom this
has been an incredibly difficult year
and hoping above hope that with the
vaccine roll out slowly ramping
up that this time next year will finally
look
very very different crowds of people
gathered outside the welsh parliament
building in cardiff bay
despite chronovirus restrictions being
in place still
hundreds of people were seen partying
without social distancing
on the center steps yesterday evening
the leader of cardiff council says
those who took part should be deeply
ashamed of themselves
now perhaps you may be gearing up for a
traditional easter egg hunt tomorrow
you might find it difficult to be as
elaborate
as this one okay
there's the easter bunny aka captain
spencer slate
setting up an underwater easter hunt
it's just off the florida keys the
reason he's doing it is to raise money
for local children
in need and what you should know is all
the eggs
even though they're all coloured and
decorated have non-toxic colouring
and they are environmentally friendly
and it seems that the fish are very calm
about the easter egg hunt aqua bunny
do you think you can use that aqua bunny
you like that aqua bunny
yeah i mean i i don't know if the bunny
suit would weigh you down i don't know
how
you'd glide in the water easily though
it's nice to see in different
circumstances
why not absolutely big fan of an easter
egg hump
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story
with bbc dot co dot uk forward slash
news
follow the story for all the latest with
bbc news